General guidance
1. Pavements (including any path along
the side of a road) should be used if
provided. Where possible, avoid being
next to the kerb with your back to the
traffic. If you have to step into the road,
look both ways first. Always show due
care and consideration for others.
2. If there is no pavement, keep to the
right-hand side of the road so that you
can see oncoming traffic. You should
take extra care and
be prepared to walk in single file,
especially on narrow roads or in poor
light
keep close to the side of the road.
It may be safer to cross the road well
before a sharp right-hand bend so that
oncoming traffic has a better chance of
seeing you. Cross back after the bend.
3. Help other road users to see you.
Wear or carry something light-coloured,
bright or fluorescent in poor daylight
conditions. When it is dark, use reflective
materials (e.g. armbands, sashes,
waistcoats, jackets, footwear), which can
be seen by drivers using headlights up to
three times as far away as non-reflective
4. Young children should not be out alone
on the pavement or road (see Rule 7).
When taking children out, keep between
them and the traffic and hold their hands
firmly. Strap very young children into
push-chairs or use reins. When pushing
a young child in a buggy, do not push the
buggy into the road when checking to
see if it is clear to cross, particularly from
between parked vehicles.

5. Organised walks. Large groups of
people walking together should use a
pavement if available; if one is not, they
should keep to the left. Look-outs should
be positioned at the front and back of the
group, and they should wear fluorescent
clothes in daylight and reflective clothes
in the dark. At night, the look-out in front
should show a white light and the one at
the back a red light. People on the
outside of large groups should also carry
lights and wear reflective clothing.
6. Motorways. Pedestrians be
on motorways or slip roads except in an
emergency.




7.  The Green Cross Code. The advice 
given below on crossing the road is for
all pedestrians. Children should be
taught the Code and should not be
allowed out alone until they can
understand and use it properly. The age
when they can do this is different for
each child. Many children cannot judge
how fast vehicles are going or how far
away they are. Children learn by
example, so parents and carers should
always use the Code in full when out
with their children. They are responsible
for deciding at what age children can use
it safely by themselves.
A. First find a safe place to cross and
where there is space to reach the
pavement on the other side. Where there
is a crossing nearby, use it. It is safer to
cross using a subway, a footbridge, an
island, a zebra, pelican, toucan or puffin
crossing, or where there is a crossing
point controlled by a police officer, a
school crossing patrol or a traffic warden.
Otherwise choose a place where you can
see clearly in all directions. Try to avoid
crossing between parked cars (see Rule
14), on a blind bend, or close to the brow
of a hill. Move to a space where drivers
and riders can see you clearly. Do not
cross the road diagonally.
MUST NOT
Laws RTRA sect 17, MT(E&W)R 1982 as amended,
reg 15(1)(b) & MT(S)R reg 13
Crossing the road

6 Rules for pedestrians B. Stop just before you get to the kerb,
where you can see if anything is coming.
Do not get too close to the traffic. If
there's no pavement, keep back from the
edge of the road but make sure you can
still see approaching traffic.
C. Look all around for traffic and listen.
Traffic could come from any direction.
Listen as well, because you can
sometimes hear traffic before you see it.
D. If traffic is coming, let it pass. Look all
around again and listen. Do not cross
until there is a safe gap in the traffic and
you are certain that there is plenty of
time. Remember, even if traffic is a long
way off, it may be approaching very
quickly.
E. When it is safe, go straight across the
road - do not run. Keep looking and
listening for traffic while you cross, in
case there is any traffic you did not see,
or in case other traffic appears suddenly.
Look out for cyclists and motorcyclists
travelling between lanes of traffic. Do not
walk diagonally across the road.
8. At a junction. When crossing the road,
look out for traffic turning into the road,
especially from behind you. If you have
started crossing and traffic wants to turn
into the road, you have priority and they
should give way (see Rule 170).
9. Pedestrian Safety Barriers. Where
there are barriers, cross the road only at
the gaps provided for pedestrians. Do
not climb over the barriers or walk
between them and the road.
10. Tactile paving. Raised surfaces that can
be felt underfoot provide warning and
guidance to blind or partially sighted
people. The most common surfaces are
a series of raised studs, which are used
at crossing points with a dropped kerb,
or a series of rounded raised bars which
are used at level crossings, at the top
and bottom of steps and at some other
hazards.
11. One-way streets. Check which way the
traffic is moving. Do not cross until it is
safe to do so without stopping. Bus and
cycle lanes may operate in the opposite
direction to the rest of the traffic.
12. Bus and cycle lanes. Take care when
crossing these lanes as traffic may be
moving faster than in the other lanes, or
against the flow of traffic.
13. Routes shared with cyclists. Some
cycle tracks run alongside footpaths or
pavements, using a segregating feature
to separate cyclists from people on foot.
Segregated routes may also incorporate
short lengths of tactile paving to help
visually impaired people stay on the
correct side. On the pedestrian side this
will comprise a series of flat-topped bars
running across the direction of travel
(ladder pattern). On the cyclist side the
same bars are orientated in the direction
of travel (tramline pattern). Not all routes
which are shared with cyclists are
segregated. Take extra care



 <ImageView
        android:id="@+id/tsimageView1"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        android:layout_alignParentLeft="true"
        android:layout_alignParentStart="true"
        android:layout_alignParentTop="true"
        android:baselineAlignBottom="true"
        android:paddingLeft="10dp"
        android:src="@drawable/tsfull" />
